
Q: Opening statements

JC: labour is ambitious for our country and
ambitious for you I want to build a
society where there is real opportunity
for all where everyone feels supported
and secured and where everybody has
dignity in old age there are now 4
million children living in poverty in
our country people can't get
appointments to see their GP elderly
people can't get the care they need and
millions of families are struggling to
pay bills and make ends meet they need
an ambitious government on their side
that will put money in their pockets
save our NHS rebuild our public services
deliver free personal care for older
people and free education for all yes
that does mean our
scheme those with the broadest shoulders
to pay a bit more in tax a vote for
labor is a vote for hope for real change
and for a country that works for the
many not just the few


BJ: on Thursday next week this country
reaches a turning point we can get
brexit done we can end the paralysis we
can transform our country with massive
investments in health 50,000 more nurses
more funding for every school 20,000
more police we can spread opportunity
fairly with fantastic infrastructure
education and technology and the only
way to unleash the potential of this
whole country is if we get a working
majority Conservative government because
the only possible alternative is another
hung parliament with Jeremy Corbyn and
Nicola Sturgeon with an economic agenda
that would take this country back
decades and two referendums one on
Scotland and a second toxic and divisive
referendum on the EU let's give that
nightmare and this let's end the chaos
the deadlock let's get brexit done with
a one nation Conservative government and
take this country forwards Boris Johnson
thank you very much 

Q from John Purcell John
Purcell please is Sir John Major's
recent intervention worrying to you mr.
Johnson and is mr. Blair's recent
intervention worrying to you mr. Coffey
will these interventions make any
difference to the result of the general
election or are they just a couple of
old has-been so the question of mr.
Purcell is referring to the fact that
both John Major your former leader and
Tony Blair your film a leader have
suggested the voters should consider
voting for other parties and not giving
you the majority you seek Boris Johnson
your answer to mr. purselley

BJ - well I'm mr. Purcell a John I have the
utmost respect of course for all former
conservative leaders and and don't wish
to deprecating boys as I have been but I
don't think he's right and we have a
fantastic plan to get brexit done it's a
deal that's ready to go it's Aven ready
we can get it done by Christmas getting
back into Parliament by Christmas if we
have a majority Conservative government
and all I mean unlike mr. major I lead a
party that is now totally united all 630
plus conservative candidates at this
election actually back my deal and
 we have a problem we have a very very broad
spectrum of views in there in our party
but they all back our deal now the
mystery is what is the position of the
leader of the Opposition on this subject
because I have yet to hear what the deal
is that he wants to achieve and whether
he backs it himself 

Q-Jeremy Corbyn the
question was should you be worried about
tony blair saying to people don't
necessarily vote labor 

JC - the issue coming
up on Thursday is the future of this
country are we going to continue with
this level of inequality of poverty
amongst our children of underfunding of
our schools and a threat to our national
health service and a no deal brexit
which the Prime Minister is threatening
us with or a trade deal with Donald
Trump in the USA which will damage our
public services a vote for labor is a
vote to end austerity a vote for labor
is to invest in the future of this
country and so Tony Blair and John Major
are welcome to make the comments that
they do I urge them to think for a
moment think for a moment at the reality
of what nine years of austerity is done
to the people of this country happen to
your party 

Q - What do you think mr. Corbyn that the most
successful labor prime minister in
history cannot back you to move into
number 10 

JC - I am fighting this election to
win it to win it on our manifesto to win
it on our manifesto which I believe will
bring real hope to those people that
have been denied it during these years
of austerities 

Q -and the truth that many
voters think there's an impossible
choice between either of you entering
number 10 Downing Street

BJ -  well I hope
very much that people will vote for a
one nation conservative government and
and get Brett's it done and I think we
actually if you look at our agenda it's
positive it's progressive it will unite
the country involve massive investing in
public services and take us forward

JC -  our
government will empower people our
government will not leave anybody behind
that is the whole principle the golden
thread that runs through our manifesto


Q- well let's turn to brexit it's already
been raised many times already and on
this question we're going to take two
questions one from a leave voter one
from a remain voter so first of all Evol
Nemeton who voted leave please brexit
has taken up so much time already
people are really fed up can you
guarantee that it will happen next year
can you guarantee it'll happen next year
and then Tom Clark who voted remain how
would we be better off from the brexit
deal or a future labor deal compared to
what we already have as a member of the
EU thank you very much let's turn first
to Yvonne Emerson's question can you
guarantee that brexit will happen next
year jeremy corbyn

JC-  well I can guarantee
is that will bring an end to this debate
and we will have a final say for the
people of this country we cannot go on
forever saying we represent the 48 or
the 52 I want to lead a government that
represents the whole country and the
whole community so we will within three
months negotiate a leave agreement with
the European Union that will protect
trade and jobs and the peace process in
Northern Ireland and put that alongside
remain in a referendum within six months
and that will be the end of the matter
my role as the leader of my party as the
Prime Minister would be to ensure that
decision is carried out whatever it is
but nobody voted to lose their job or to
lose trade with Europe people voted for
many many reasons but I think we've got
to come together and bring this issue to
an end not go down the road of
sweetheart deals with the USA 

Boris
Johnson - well I sharethe frustration of
both our questions about the length of
time it's taken to get brexit done and
what we can do with the deal that we
have is
done by January the 31st and come out
and then to get to the question about
the advantages we can do such things as
improve our standards for animal welfare
banned the live export of animals we can
cut the eighty on tampons we can do
things to create free ports around the
country there are all sorts of ways in
which we can regulate differently in
better we can also of course control our
immigration system for the first time in
long time now well I haven't heard from
the leader of the Labour Party's this
deal that he thinks he can get in three
months time who is going to negotiate it
because as far as I can see everybody on
the labor front bench is campaigning to
remain apart from mr. Corbyn who's who
is neutral on the matter who is going to
secure this deal how can you get a deal
a new deal from Brussels for brexit if
you don't actually believe in it that's
the mystery that I've felt well 

Q- jeremy
corbyn i don't you go to dearly asked if
you don't really believe in it and john
macdonald and Diane Abbott and kissed on
all the rest week they say they remain

JC -we get a deal in order to ensure that
whatever the outcome of final vote the
trade relationship continues with Europe
if you go down the road it'll take seven
years to negotiate a trade deal with the
USA you're gonna have queues all up the
m20 in Kent you're going to have a
problem of supply chain to all of our
manufacturing industries you're going to
have job losses on a huge scale nonsense
unless you have a serious deal with the
EU to maintain that trade relationship

BJ- we have a deal it's a wonderful deal
we're coming out on January the 31st if
we can get a working majority and I'm
afraid listening to mr. Korbell it's
absolutely clear that what would happen
next years would be a period of
negotiation about this mystery deal led
by somebody in the labour party that was
we can't yet identify since mr. korman
doesn't believe in the deal himself it
would then be put to another referendum
to the people of this country Parliament
our country would spend a whole year
more probably more Oh wracked locked in
debate about brexit
when what people want to do is move on
and focus on the issues facing the
people jeremy corbyn and then what we
can do immediate 

JC - mr. Johnson will spend
at least
seven years negotiating the USA on
access to our public services on the
price of medicines in Britain on the
access to our national health service
and he knows he can't get a deal quickly
with the USA because of the way in which
the US political system works and so
what he will do is walk out of a
relationship with the EU into a
relationship with nobody and that is
    will come where the chaos 

BJ -  I'm afraid
that shows a slightly ignorance of the of
the reality which is that as we leave
the EU we are coming out with our deal
with a state of perfect equivalence zero
tariffs zero quota will be able to begin
not only putting in our Australian star
points based system for immigration
taking back control of our laws taking
back control of our money will also be
asked your matter trade there mister
John talks not just with countries
around the world but we will we will do
a fantastic deal with the EU and with us

Q-you again and again so the phrase get
brexit done that's right but you haven't
done a trade deal with the EU you don't
know you could do a trade deal with EU
you don't know there won't be no deal on
trade with the EU do you 

BJ - on the contrary
we have a fantastic deal it is there
ready to go and trade forgive me you
don't have what it has what it what ou
deal allows is for British businesses of
all kinds to have perfect confidence in
the way we leave the EU because we are
in the state of equivalence with zero
tariffs zero quota exact a regulatory
framework and we have ample time to get
and build a new free trade
partnership not just with the EU but
with countries around the world and the
great beauty of this deal is it it gets
brexit done gets it out of Parliament
stops the ranked wrangling stops the
chaos and moves us for thank you very
much 
JC-Jeremy Jeremy Corbyn jeremy
corbyn's gonna spend years negotiating
with the USA he's gonna spend years
ruing the fact he didn't reach a proper
agreeing with the EU before leaving and
as the documents we've shown today
indicate he hasn't been exactly
straightforward on the issues
surrounding trade with Northern Ireland
and the Republic of Ireland and so I do
think we need a bit of openness from the
government we forced him to release the
documents
so we've released them for them actually
a week ago which showed the access that
the us were demanding to our public
services and today the news came out of
what's happening with Northern Ireland
and briefly mr. Gordon for people who
didn't hear the news what are you
claiming the documents show and then
we'll put it to play show quite clearly
that there are going to be charges there
are going to be customs checks that are
going to be restrictions on trade
between Britain and Northern Ireland
thank you very much 

BJ- first John so
actually that is not true the whole of
the UK comes out England Scotland Wales
Northern Ireland together we do free
trade deals together Northern Ireland is
part of the customs territory of the of
the UK and we are united and I have to
say I I think it's relevant and it says
unfettered access I think is what it
says is part of the customs territory
the Union is who were your partners they
agree with him I'm not usually don't
actually because because our deal is a
great deal you know let me just make one
one part I do find it slightly curious
to say the least to be lectured
about the union between Great Britain
and Northern Ireland by a man who all
his life political life has campaigned
to break up that Union and actually
supported for four decades the IRA in
their campaign to violently violently to
destroy I must say I find it a curiosity
J

JC- Jeremy Corbyn wasn't about the Prime
Minister showing a degree of honesty
about the arrangements he's actually
made with Northern Ireland he spoke at
DUP conferences said there would be no
restrictions whatsoever we now know
there are restrictions he should and
could have said that at the time and so
it is a question of openness on all of
this 
Q- when he says you've supported
people who are opposed to you need your
whole life you don't even believe 

JC-I've done is always wanted to see a
peace process in Northern Ireland and
that is exactly what we've got and thank
you to the Labour government that
negotiated it after night now gentlemen
briefly thank you there was a second
question 

Q- I want to give you the chance
if you remember let me just remind you
Tom Clark asked you mr. Johnson how
we'll be better off from the brexit deal
or a future labor deal compared to
being in the EU 

BJ- please thank you thanks
very much Tom endure there will be all
sorts of ways I've mentioned the the
ways we can cut dat on sanitary products
or regulate differently for bioscience
or do have free ports in areas that need
investment you can trigger growth and
investments in some of the Left Behind
coastal communities by having three
Porter's 130 countries do around the
world we can't because of EU rules
another major advantage is of course
that we take back control of a lot of
money that we'd out otherwise sent to
the EU but I might mention also our
ability to control our immigration which
is not unimportant I'm a believer in
immigration for people of talent who
want to come here fantastic but we've
got to control it thank you
democratically 

Q- Janko in your answer the
Russians to do forgive me how will we be
better off from brexit you're asked if
you have your deal or indeed and you go
to a referendum and it passes and we do
leave 

JC-because we will make sure that our
jobs and our manufacturing industries
are able to continue trading over half
of our traders with Europe at the
present time walk away from that put up
a barrier on that then you've got real
problems for manufacturing industry jobs
all across the country
many jobs have already been lost because
of the uncertainty surrounding all this
we gotta deal with this in six
months the Prime Minister's suggestions
of a trade deal with the USA which will
take at least in their estimation seven
years to negotiate means seven years of
complete uncertainty and continued job
losses in manufacturing industry we go

Q- when you've been asked by Boris Johnson
I want to give you the chance to answer
why you won't say where you stand on
Britta is it that you don't know what
you think about brexit or that you do
know but you won't help 

JC -it's because I
think the country has to come together
and cannot keep on negotiating and
arguing with itself about 48 vs. 52 it
has to be an agreement we can reach with
the EU that is credible and would
maintain that trade relationship but
would be outside of EU membership or
full membership of the EU that is a way
of bringing people together and a
government that implements that decision
whatever it is very because you cannot
in the

BJ- you cannot end the uncertainty on brexit
if you don't know what the deal is that
you want to do I negotiated our deal I
you cannot negotiate a deal if you're
neutral on it it's absolutely an
inconceivable and I think it is a I'm
afraid to say a failure of leadership
not to have a position on the greatest
issue facing this country at the moment
giver and cannot get a good deal for
this country if you don't believe it
like we want to understand how mr.
Corben proposes to negotiate 

Q- when you
put that to him and he's had the chance
to respond so let's move on to the
National Health Service another crucial
issue we've got a question from faith
Zaloom it's faiths illumise please thank
you I am returning to my nursing studies
next April it costs the lots to train as
a nurse for the starting salaries are
low how would you deal with the shortage
of nurses and ensure the NHS can retain
them so faith who is a student nurse
says how would you deal with the
shortage of nurses and ensure that the
NHS can retain them 

BJ- Boris Johnson well
thank you very much for for what you're
doing and I believe passionately we need
to we need more nurses in the NHS I've
been in empowering office for about 130
days and everything I've seen convincing
me this is now a time to invest
massively in our NHS so what we're doing
is putting in the biggest cash boost 34
billion pounds more 50 thousands more
nurses and I should unpack that figure
people complain about it but it means
retaining the 19,000 who might otherwise
drop out of the service and then
recruiting another 30 1000 new new
nurses plus we're bringing back the the
5000 pound
bursary one thing that we're doing that
I think is sensible that our Australian
star points based system allows us to do
is to encourage nurses from overseas to
come with a fill to fill some of the
gaps by shortening the time for their
their visa application now what I think
is totally incomprehensible is to have a
system where you try to get more nurses
and more staff into the NHS and
simultaneously ask the whole of the
public sector to work a four-day week
thank you very much patients are bad for
the energy 

Q-Jeremy Corbyn thank you just
to remind you of the question
faith salut salut myth says how would
you deal with the shortage of
and ensure the NHS can rotate

 well there- JC
are 43,000 nurse fakin C's at the
present time it was a Conservative
government that cut the nurse bursary it
was a conservative and Liberal Democrat
coalition that increased student fees to
nine thousand pounds a year and that is
a major contributing factor to the
stress levels that exist within our NHS
it is a breaking point it is at crisis
point go to any any department and
you'll see that straight away so what we
do is end university fees which will
mean more people going to studying what
we will do is return the nurse bursaries
probably on a more generous scale than
it was in the past and we will recruit
as rapidly as we possibly can but
crucially will fund the NHS properly
forty billion pounds in total will go
into the NHS in order to fund it
properly and that has to be done the
Prime Minister the day after he was
appointed announced there was going to
be 40 new hospitals a week later that
became 20 a bit later on it became six
new hospitals he seems to have a problem
with the figures about hospital building
in Britain 

BJ- a new state mr corbyn who has
a problem we come up with these brexit
policy but the reality that we have a
very clear agenda which is to upgrade 20
hospitals to build 40 new ones it's
perfectly true that the cash allocation
for the whole hospital build is for six
initially but we're putting in the seed
funding now so they think do the
architects drawings do the plans do all
the business case so that in 10 years
time as a result of the decisions taken
just in the last 130 days by this
government there will be 40 new


 what's - JC
wrong with that is to go in this country
well what's wrong with that is 12 hours
or 15 hours after being appointed Prime
Minister he came to Parliament and
grandly announced there was 40 new
hospitals it turned out the words that's
when he was asked where they were going
to be but that was then reduced to 20
and then it became seed funding for six
it's not credible to make those kind of
statements and not be able to back it up
run with any serious plan he's


Q- credible mr. Corbyn mr. Johnson asked
you a second ago is he credible to say
you'll deal with nursing shortages while
agreeing to a four-day week which will
surely make the shortages worse
  
JC-what we have said is that we want to see
the working week come down at the
average working week across the country
is it's the homemade hours and we
achieve bringing it down by improved
productivity industries and services
there is no plan to bring in a four-day
week in the NHS but there is a plan to
properly invest in our NHS because I am
fed up with seeing people queuing and
waiting and being in desperate straits
trying to get an appointment to see a
job or to go into hospital 

BJ-MacDonald
said very clearly that there was a plan
for a four-day working week and and and
it's not clear why mr corbyn has
resolved from that tonight but I what I
will say is that we will invest
massively in the NHS this is a new
government's very ambitious government I
want to see more funding going into our
public services we're leveling up
funding of education in schools around
the country 20,000 more police but we
can only do that by having a strong
economy and the only way I mean you're
not going to like the snip the only way
we can have a strong economy is if we
move this country forward and get brexit
done and I just remind you one one three
flavor one report that came out the
other day there is a hundred and fifty
billion pounds worth of investment
waiting to come into this country if we
can get my deal across the line thank
you this country thank you thank you

JC-give me interrupted Corbin's to
reference forgive me interrupting is
very close on the time and you've had
rather odd just to make Corbin needs to
catch up that the conservatives and
liberals Democrats passed a Health and
Social Care Act after 2010 and that has
led to 10 billion pounds of private
sector involvement in the NHS with often
different wage structures and a
difficulty in management labour will end
privatization with the NHS and return it
to what it was always intended to be a
fully funded fully functioning Public
Health Service in this country 

Q-you will
any privatization you say are you still
claiming that the NHS is up for sale
because your document doesn't seem to
show any such thing 

JC-well read the
documents that were discussed in secret
and the government refused to release
them between themselves and the US
administration about access to public
services and the extension of the life
of patents
medicines which would increase medicine
costs in this country President Trump
has said many times people pay too
little for us medicines around the world
that's the kind of agenda the Prime
Minister wants to get involved with
that's the kind of deal they're trying
to make with the US 

to say this is pure Bermuda TriangleBJ--
stuff we've heard it time and time again
from the Labour Party during this
election campaign men next I believe
very passionately in a I love it it's
it's one of the most incredible things
about this country it is admired around
the world the central idea that if any
of us gets sick all of us take care of
them it's a fantastic thing now we
believe in NHS free at the point of use
and no under no circumstances will we
sell it off to anybody in any kind of a
trade deal I would just remind I've just
refused what he's quoted which is that
American trade negotiators say they want
more oxygen to the nhin I've made it
absolutely clear to everybody that under
no circumstances will happen and with
the biggest privatisation of the NHS of
course took place under the last Oh
labor government which which putting on the cover
the ruinous PFI the ruinous PFI system
and I've gone round many hospitals
talking to fantastic staff and
management there who are bearing the
burden thank you of that he will
now have to destroy 

JC- your party opposed
the formation of the NHS in the first
place well getting back to nineteen it
is actually so that the more important
thing is that your party is presided
over cuts in our NHS increased waiting
times and waiting lists record number of
people delayed in getting appointments
and a social care system that is in
crisis it is time is 

BJ- now than there were
under the Labour Party and that's
because we've had a strong economy
that's enabled us to make investment so
we are now going to step those
investments up because we believe
passionately the in the NHS and the way
to take this country forward the way to
get it moving is to get rid of the
blockade in Parliament get Brexit done and move on
there are 41 nation 

Q- so today let
me just ask you mr. 3000 nurse vacancies
that's the fact understood now you sent
an email on behalf of the Labour Party
saying imagine opening a five-figure
bill for your cancer treatments to
accept that they totally misleading
there is no possibility of anybody
having NHS cancer treatment and having
to pay a five figure

JC- if you ended up with a
privatized service that's what you get
if you end up with that US trade deal
that is what you've got now the Prime
Minister says is not going to do that
sort of a trade deal if that's the case
why did the talks go on for two years it
doesn't take two years to say no to
privatization of the NHS

Q- okay thank you
lots and lots of questions to get
through one to give you the chance to
move on now because we've had lots of
questions one or two we're going to make
rather quicker than the rest I'll come
to one of those in just a second you can
join in this debate of course hashtag
BBC debate on social media and before we
return to all of our longer questions we
got an interesting question here from
Phil who was written in can't be
here tonight which has the better track
record of raising the standards the
living standards of the poor socialism
or capitalism 

Jeremy Corbyn - socialism
carried out in a democratic way in this
country in Scandinavia and other places
has raised the living standards of the
very poorest and it was the post-war
Labour government that did massively to
improve the living standards of the
poorest working class communities in
this country and our Labour government
will do the same again 

BJ-and I would say
it is one nation conservatism which
understands the vital importance of a
dynamic market economy as the only way
in which you can pay for fantastic
public services and forgiving and for
looking after the poorest and neediest
in our society that is the balance and
symmetry at the heart of what I'm trying
to achieve with this government and I
think that to attack capitalism as mr.
Corbyn and mr. McDonald do is absolutely
senseless and by the way could take
continue to attack all free trade is I
also think Oh
I think ignorant of the fact 

Q-do you think
he wants to destroy capitalism Rio is
that John McDonald who is the Shadow
Chancellor and some would say the the
intellectual driving force behind this
type of plyo socialism is committed he
says to fermenting the overthrow of
capitalism I think that is a is a
mistake I don't think that's the right
way forward for our country I believe in
supporting businesses
I believe in cutting let's immerse rates


JC-my kind of socialism you don't leave people
behind
you don't ignore the fact that four
million of our children living in
poverty
you don't ignore the fact that there are
thousands of people sleeping on the
streets of this country the fifth
richest country in the world the
inequality has got worse 150
billionaires in Britain more people poor
than ever


Q-Jeremy thank you right we could him turn
on to a broader question the moving on
so a broader question about the
economies are both of the leaders will
have the chance to talk at greater
length
Andrew Brook has our next question
Andrew Brooke please thank you both you
say that if you're asked to form a
government next week you will spend
spend spend making your plans your
expenditure plans that is seem like a
fantasy how are you how are we really
going to pay for everything that you are
promising Andrew Brooke thank you very
much indeed
spend spend spend he says you're both
going to do gentlemen he wants to know
how both of you are going to pay or
rather how we're gonna pay for your
plans 

BJ-boys John Andrew thank you very
much and we will certainly be making
some big investments in as I say in the
NHS in putting more police on the
streets in lifting up our education
funding for every school in the country
were to continue with that but what we
won't do is borrow hugely to fund
day-to-day investment and that is the
mistake that the Labour Party would make
they would rack up our debts they would
put up spending to 1.2 trillion towards
your your question what that would mean
is a tax burden of 2,400 pounds a per
taxpayer and you know that you hear from
labour sometimes that the burden is I
think mr. Corbyn said it just now the
burden is going to fall only on 150
billionaires or the top 5% actually
people on as little as twenty thousand
pounds
under their plans will be pay 1000
pounds a year more intact


 Jeremy Corbyn
he says the people are not rich will pay
for your plans we're very clear about
that and we are the only party that's
produced a fully costed manifesto with a
grade book that adds up to every piece
of expenditure we want the problem with
this country is we've gone too far down
the road of free market economics we've
created too much inequality and if every
single bit of our manifesto was carried
out tomorrow we would just about reach
the level of the public services of
France or Germany that is how far
backwards we've gone there has to be
investment in our schools why are so
many children in oversized classes why
are so many children growing up in
insecure housing because there isn't the
sufficiency of council housing available
why are there so many people waiting for
Social Care why do so many people in
middle-age have to go into debt to pay
for their kids to go through university
and the social care that their older
parents need it's simply time to invest
in our future Thank You

 Boris Johnson
and I agree but the difference between
mr. Corbyn and myself is that his plans
and we as I say we will be making
substantial investments within the
fiscal Headroom that we have but whilst
bearing down on our debt over the life
of the Parliament but what we won't do
is rack up such debts that the the
markets demand a higher interest rate
and you end up with huge tax burdens
falling on everybody else labour always
ends their time in office with an
economic crisis for billion more for me
Gordon and McDonald would start their
time in office with an economic crisis


Q-mr. Goldman he says that all of us will
pay more in our taxes not just the rich
and the independent think tanks like the
Institute of Fiscal Studies agree that's
what they they don't agree with that
point actually what clearly not true
they said of your claim that only the
top 5% of earners would pay more 

JC-they
questioned some aspects of our program
and we're happy to discuss that with
them but we are the party that actually
produced the funding of it the
Conservative Party have produced nothing
in the way of how they're going to pay
for anything they suggest they're doing
other than tax cuts it's very hard to
see how you can expand services if
you're cutting the
income base of government in the first
place a fair question is saying it there
has to be investment to deal with the
inequalities within our society 

Q- how would you
pretend to cut taxes and pay for more

BJ- labor labor labor didn't produce the the
funding for anything I'm afraid it's the
hard work of the British people and it's
the heart it's it's British companies
it's it's British businesses large and
small that produced the funding that
pays for our National Health Service and
everything else and we're a government
that understands that if you're going to
have a dynamic market economy you cannot
clobber them you can't clobber companies
with the highest taxes in in Europe
which is what mr. Corbyn in the Labour
Party would do it would be entirely
wrong for this country to go down the
route that they're proposing 

Q-I quoted
mr. Corbyn let me quote the McCue he
says your prospectus say the Institute
of mystical studies top economic think
tank your prospect as they say is not
credible well so you haven't said how
you'll pay for Social km said how you'll
pay for future tax that's not credible

BJ-is it well I own the country our program
is fully costed is during the manifesto
and it's a great great program and the
one other advantage that we have apart
from not wrecking the economy and not
having a fiscal meltdown which is what
labour always do putting up taxes for
everybody we would get our country
moving forwards again by getting brexit
done and the economic drag anchor of
brexit on this country should not be
underestimated it is stopping investment
it means that people are uncertain about
making purchases about take your own the
good jobs 

JC - what some conservative
government's always do is look after the
very richest within our society they've
done very very well in the years of
austerity while it's communities all
over the country they've paid for it
with closed libraries closed swimming
pools out of reach pricing on sports
facilities lack of housing increased
stress increased mental health stress we
have to redress the imbalances within
our society and our tax proposals
for a corporation tax would be to raise
it to 26%
at the the end of the first period of
that labour government which will
actually be lower than it was in 2010
low than is in far
Lola is in the USA what we're proposing
is a serious set of plans in order to
stay addressing the imbalances within
our society 

BJ - I think it's important to do
that
he's Clayton is basically it's a Prius
into line with many countries around the
world in Western Europe I think it's
quite incredible that mr. Corben should
claim that people on 20,000 pounds a
year are amongst the richest in society
and therefore deserve to be clobbered by
his tax increases I think that is
totally wrong the burden of Taxation
always falls most heavily on those on
modest and low incomes that is what will
happen if Labour are allowed to get in
if we have a that's because you're
taking the burden of rituals in Sturgeon
coalition I'm afraid it will lead to an
economic disaster and worse still it
will lead to the political stalemate the
frustration for business that wants to
get on and their uncertainty of not
knowing what the position on brexit is
and we still haven't heard from mr.
Corbyn and this debate has not been
running for 35 minutes whether he's in
favor of the deal that he is trying to
do and how he wouldn't go Sharia

JC- no you
know what the business organizations
tell me is they can't stand the
uncertainty of this government they
can't stand with the idea of a No Deal
exit they want to make sure they're able
to continue that trade and continue that
just-in-time delivery system that is so
important in manufacturing industry and
they are constantly concerned at the
lack of understanding of how industry
works from a Conservative government
that claims to be in support of those
industries what he said to use mr.
gorban I want to give you the chance to
answer it is that businesses even ones
that were in favor of remain what
certainty they want clarity they want to
get it done what's your answer to with
us you will get a deal which would be
leave but leave with the trade
arrangement or you get remain which will
obviously carry on the current situation
but they would have the certainty of
knowing what the trade relationship is
where the investments going to come from
and where the market is for the goods
that are made in this country it's kind
of important to know those things thank

BJ
it is important to know those things but
he's absolutely unclear what that deal
would be what mr. Coburn proposes to
leave and who in his party proposes to
campaign him the deal he's gained

Q- you've
made that point very well early on let's
turn to another question now a very
important subject given the events of
recent days the issue of security and
the question comes from Richard bow
strode mr. bow straight please
your most important responsibilities if
you become Prime Minister in a week's
time will be to keep us safe
given the terror attacks we've seen on
the streets of London are you prepared
to put public safety ahead of human
rights 

Jeremy Corbyn- will you put public
safety ahead of human rights mr.
Badrinath it's not an either/or you
obviously have to keep the public safe
you have to ensure that the police are
there and properly funded you have to
ensure the prison system works and is
effective that the parole board works
and is effective that the Probation
Service works and is effective you have
to give people that security you don't
get security on the cheap you have to
invest in it human rights are our
defense against autocracy and our
offense our defence against abuse of
power there is no difference between
wanting security and human rights the
two things that actually inextricably
linked together

 Boris Johnson yes well
absolutely no reason to compromise
people's human rights such as the the
perpetrator of the atrocious killings at
London Bridge but I do think that it was
extraordinary and wrong that he should
be out on early release and automatic
early release and I said long before I
became Prime Minister that we needed a
campaign against short sentences I said
in August that we should get rid of
automatic early release and I've been
very very sad to see this guy out on the
streets able to do what he did and we
have a bill waiting to go stuck because
of the blockade in in Parliament if we
can if we can get a working majority and
we can get rid of automatic early
release and make sure for serious sexual
and violent offenders and make sure that
tear
people are convicted of terrorist
offences serve their full sentence I
think that is what this country would
expect 

Q-what is wrong mr. gorban with the
idea just what that would combat
you what point what is wrong with the
idea that Boris Johnson spells out there
that terrorists particularly Jerry
should serve their full sentence 

JC-you
have to run a prison system and a
judicial system in a proper way you have
to have a prison system that works but
one day pretty well all prisoners are
going to come out at some point but if
you don't run a prison system that
includes rehabilitation and you don't
have a proper assessment of people
before they're given any form of early
release and a proper review of those
cases then there's obviously a danger to
all of us and so what happened on
streets of London was utterly appalling
and I was very moved by what Jack
Merritt's father said about what his son
was trying to do that he wanted a
society where you did address the huge
problems where somebody committed awful
acts like that yes of course you must
imprison them yes of course
you must try and rehabilitate them if
you can but there has to be a monitoring
process to achieve that we need the
security on our streets security doesn't
come on the cheap and if you cut the
number of police officers cut the number
of PCSOs privatize the Probation Service
underfund all the other aspects of the
criminal justice system then we all pay
a price with our own security

 mr.Q
Johnson will you deal first of all
please check Merritt's father did say
that Jack lived and in the end died for
a society in which quotes where we do
not lock up and throw away the key where
we focus on rehabilitation he said and
not revenge of course


Boris Johnson- and I have I have
huge sympathy for mr. Merrit and the
relatives families of both victims and
it was an absolutely terrible thing but
I still think it's wrong that something
like Osman Khan who was sentenced to
21 years or 16 years plus 5 on own
license should have been out
automatically on eight years after eight
years when the judge when he was first
convicted made it clear that he was a
very serious jihadi and a risk to public
safety and under our government under my
government of course we won't want to be
compromising people's human rights it of
course we won't but we must put public
safety first quash that automatic
automatic earlier release in such cases
is I think completely unreasonable and
we will get rid of

Q- could you address mr
corbyn's point though that you have
decimated the Probation Service the
Prison Service as well many thousands
fewer prison officers and the Probation
Service as well as well as police
officers during the era of austerity

BJ- but
Nick I mean it's just a small point of
fact I mean there was no parole or
probation involved in this he was he was
released automatically but your point
and there was there was nothing that any
parole board or probation officer could
could do about that that was the nature
of the sentence but there is a a valid
question about how now we make sure that
we have a criminal justice system that
protects everybody and delivers justice
and we are gonna get a relative
agreement you may be a great we are
putting a huge amount of cash into our
criminal justice system I do believe
that it should run smoothly and we're
putting another 2.5 billion into our
into our prisons here we go you can only
have if you have a strong economy thank
you how seriously overcrowded prisons
we've lost a lot of prison officers and
when a prison is overcrowded as a
shortage of officers the first thing
that goes is education the next thing
that goes is rehabilitation the next
thing that goes is medical support and
so on so you end up with a breeding
ground for all the horrors of the future
if we go down that road we all pay a
price so I'm simply saying this let's
invest in our prison system invest in
rehabilitation invest crucially in a
probation service that works
it was privatized by this government ago
we're saying it should have been
completely in public owners

Q- just want to
make sure you're answering a point he
made mr. Johnson said to in this
particular case it was not about
resource it was not about the parole
board of probation he says it was about
sentences and you're opposed to the
why change he wants to make

JC- what I've said
is there should be a review
of the individual prisoner before
release his countenance that I think is
absolutely clear and that's why I asked
for a role for both the parole board as
well as the Probation Service in this
because listen what happened was
unbelievably appalling and therefore we
have to keep people safe and secure but
you don't do that by under investing in
rehabilitation program 

BJ - well great
respect to mr. Corben his Freddy's crew
has consistently opposed longer
sentences and when you look at mi5 the
the body that keeps us safe particularly
from from terror attacks he's proposing
to put in a Home Secretary in the form
of Diane Albert who is called for mi5 to
be disbanded mr. Corbin great respect to
him I do not when you look at the huge
issues of safety on the on public street
sir
knife crime you have a Labor Party that
is adamantly sceptical opposed to stop
and search which I believe is an
integral part of fighting crime on our
streets and we're not only going to put
20,000 more officers on the streets of
London we're gonna fight the streets of
this country gonna fight crime in the
way that I did in in London we're
gonna back the police up

JC- let's get us in
the government that cut the police force
by such massive numbers privatized our
probation service and got rid of all of
our PCSOs in many parts of the country
forgive me miss already you've made the
point about cuts 

Q- he's going to you is
that your Home Secretary Diane Abbott
wants to he claims you tell us wanted in
the past at least a disband mi5 ever
you've nosed so ever to disband mi5 or
any other part of the security services
there are plans to invest properly in
our police and security services and
when you live and represent an area like
mine where somebody was murdered on the
streets by a far-right terrorist attack
on an individual you realize how
horrific that is for the community and
how dangerous that is for all of us yes
we do need to invest in all of our
services and that will help to make us
all a lot safer 

Q- gentlemen thank you very
much indeed
let us move on now to Toby Mayhew who
has a question for us Toby may you
please from accusations of Islamophobia
and anti-semitism in major parties to
threats made against female MPs what
would you do to get the hate out of
politics what would you do to get they
hate out of politics
Toby Mayhew hasn't he mentions
Islamophobia anti-semitism and the
threat against female MPs Boris Johnson
I'm going to ask both you leaders to
address problems in your own parties to
begin with of course you may make one to
make points about other party 

BJ- well
I took I think you're making a very
important point and everybody feels it
at the moment this is a very rough time
in in politics there's a lot of feeling
at the moment and I think on prejudice
Islamophobia anti-semitism what were
doing in our party is having an
independent inquiry into into anybody
who's guilty of any such offence and and
there are at first bounce if they are if
they're if they're if they're guilty I
think when it comes to the protection
particularly of a female MPs and women
in politics it's vital that we give them
the security that they they need them
and we're doing a huge amount in the
House of Commons to deliver that what we
need to do is we need to come together
as a country we've been going at this
for too long
and that one of the things and that this
is I really am afraid this is my key
point tonight the scratchiness of
politics the bitterness the acrimony is
a function of our inability to get
brexit done almost specific point
that we are can do it and we will all
can be out on January 31st and end what
I think is misery for the country

Q- the
specific point about Islamophobia and
then I'm going to turn to mr corbyn on
anti-semitism you say people come out at
first bounce but you have candidates
have retweeted Tommy Robinson talking
about quotes muslim paedophiles and a
former chair of the Conservative Party
says we have a serious and deep problem
with Islamophobia yeah

BJ-  sorry very very
quickly with all those all those
candidates have either apologized are
now subject to it
investigation and you know I don't want
to unnecessarily draw comparisons with
the Labour Party but I do think it
extraordinary that in this election
we've heard for the first time in
history the the chief rabbi say that he
fears for his community in this country
i were mr corbyn to be elected and i
think it's a quite extraordinary state
of affairs 

Q- Jericho but it is
extraordinary isn't it that the leader
of a religious community has to warn
people about you and your party


JC - anti-semitism is wrong and totally
unacceptable in our society in our
parties in our political life and the
history of the awful trip to the Jewish
people in the 19th century in Germany
indicates exactly where that kind of
language and that kind of racism leads
us to there is no place for it
whatsoever anywhere in our party or our
society and there never will be as far
as I'm concerned 

Q- you see what Jewish
matters of the Labor Party say is if
this was black or Asian people who were
victims of racism you would listen to
them but when Jews say that your party
under your leadership is infected with
anti-jewish hatred you say no no I know
better

JC-
I don't know better than anybody I
listen to people and amend if necessary
the rules and processes I'm the leader
that introduced an investigation process
introduced a disciplinary process
introduced a process of Education
introduced a process for dealing with
egregious cases and yes we have
suspended or expelled members where we
have found them guilty of anti-semitic
behavior as indeed other parties have
done the same but there are problems of
Islamophobia within our society also as
you quite rightly draw attention to and
there are problems of language that is
used I do not ever use racist language
in any form to describe anybody in this
world or in our society as we say in the
world we treat people with respect you

BJ- r
Johnson if you want to reply I missed
that but let me race it and get let me
let me respond by saying that I think
that mr. Cogley I'm sure is very very
well intentioned but I think that in
these handling of this particular issue
his unwillingness to take a stand to
stand up for the Jewish people in the
labour party
he's  umwillingness to protect them to
put an armed run is it in my view a
failure of leadership you cannot be
neutral on questions like this anymore
in my view then you can try to lead this
country and be neutral on the issue of
brexit and it's and and it is it is a
failure to take a stand and to have a
point of view that in the end will cost
this country gravely and deeply and I
don't want to waste another year next
year and more in in vacillation and
confusion about what sort of position
mr. Corbyn is willing to take what sort
of leadership 

JC- he's when you fail you
leadership is when you use racist
remarks to describe people in different
countries or in our society I will never
do that in my party will never do that

Q- makes the point that one
way to take hate more generally out of
politics he argues is to sort this
brexit out because it's infecting
our politics whatever your view is 

JC- it
breaks it you caused agree with that of
course there has to be a solution to it
but what's your solution well I've made
that quite clear actually I'm not sure
if you about the cohesion of the point
is about the cohesion of our society
I hope the Prime Minister understands
the hurt that people feel when they hear
remarks and articles that he's written
in the past I hope he will regret those
and I hope he will understand the
importance of all of us using respectful
language of all faiths unders all
religions and all languages thank you
what is a multicultural society which
I'm proud to living

Q- sorry to interrupt but we got a couple
more questions that we want to get
through if we've got time our next
question is from Katrina Herod I'm
pleased Katrina Herod I'm in the era of
fake news what punishment do you think
is appropriate for elected politicians
who lie during political campaigns what
punishment is appropriate for elected
politicians who lie during political
campaigns 

Boris Johnson- well they should
they should be they should be made to go
on their knees to down the through the
chamber of the House of Commons
scourging themselves with copies of
their their offending documents which
claim to prove one thing and actually
prove something quite different 

Jeremy
Corbyn - I think it's important when
people go into an election campaign they
put forward a policy of what they're
going to do they put forward a policy of
how they're going to pay for it and if
they don't deliver then there is a
democratic process to deal with that in
the future that is what democracy is
about it's about holding people to
account and holding government to
account in Parliament and I want to see
not a weaker but a stronger House of
Commons in the future that holds our
government to account to make sure we
deliver on the promises of reducing
poverty in Britain Thank You 

Q
Johnson look at worried that a leading
British diplomat is resigned today
saying that she would no longer wanted
to peddle half-truths on behalf of a
government I do not trust 

BJ-well I I don't
know who you're referring to but what it
shows to me is that we need to move on
as a country because there are plenty of
people who are irreconcilably opposed to
brexit and I think that actually what we
should do is respect the will of the
people that people talk about trust in
in politics look at the promises that
were made repeatedly by mr. Colvin by
all the other parties that they would
honor the referendum result they're
refusing to do it here we stand at this
critical moment in our country's history
it's our chance on Thursday to honor our
democracy and get thank you very much in
it thank you has to be a test

JC- thank you very much very briefly mr.
there has to be a test on the
statements made and so when people paint
slogans on the side of a bus that are
totally unsustainable perhaps it's time
we have an independent monitoring of
what goes 

BJ- actually and if you look at
the numbers we put on this eyelids look
at the gross figure we pay to the EU the
number is the number is going up and it
is one of the advantages of our deal
that we will take back control of our
our money our borders our laws our
immigration system it's very very clear
is there in black and white after 40
after 59 minutes we still do not know
what mr corbyn's deal with me and we
still don't know whether he would back
it we and we'd nor do we know who in his
shadow cabinet he is proposing to deploy
to negotiate that deal Bank is one of
them actually that's it thank you very
much 

Q- now that's all the time we've
got for questions now each leader has
got 30 seconds for their closing
statement again the order was decided by
the toss of a coin Boris Johnson chose
to go last so can ask Jeremy Corbyn the
Labour Party leader to make your closing
statement mr corbyn

JC- people say that
politics doesn't change anything but it
can it was a radical labour government
that created our National Health Service
and rebuilt Britain today we must be
ambitious on the same scale the future
really is ours to make together we can
tackle the climate emergency end child
poverty and properly fund our National
Health Service on Thursday
you can choose hope and vote for real
change 

BJ - Thank You mr. Gordon is to
Johnson your closing statement please
this Thursday we can choose another hung
parliament under mr. Corbyn and Nicola
Sturgeon with too chaotic referendums or
else we can get for exit done get out of
neutral and get a parliament that works
for you and on your priorities the NHS
the cost of living 20,000 more police
more cash for our schools let's get it
done
let's move on and vote conservative on
Thursday thank you 
